
 
It is a truth universally acknowledged that every woman is in search of her own Mr Darcy, but one author claims to have unearthed1 the original man who inspired Jane Austen's romantic hero.

Dr Susan Law says she has uncovered documents and letters which prove that the character of Fitzwilliam Darcy was inspired by John Parker, the 1st Earl of Morley.
 
Like Mr Darcy, Parker was 'tall, dark and brooding' and also became embroiled2 in a sex scandal after it was discovered that his first wife had been unfaithful to him.
 
Dr Law says the new evidence shows that that Austen stayed at the Earl's country home Saltram House in Plymouth, Devon, in the early 1800s when Pride and Prejudice was written.
 
A series of letters also show that Austen was also good friends with Parker's second wife, Frances Talbot, who was herself a known author, and that the two often exchanged writing.
 
In fact, shortly after Pride and Prejudice first appeared anonymously3, Dr Law says it was believed that Frances was the author, as the character of Mr Darcy fit her husband's profile so closely.
 
Dr Law, 52, an author and historian from Knielworth, Warwickshire, said: 'The physical similarities in them are obvious but there is also so much evidence to suggest the Earl was Mr Darcy.
 
'When Jane Austin published her two novels Pride and Prejudice and Sense and Sensibility, she did so anonymously.
 
'The Earl's second wife Francis, who was well known in literally4 circles, was widely thought to be the author of those novels.
 
'The Earl was tall, dark, handsome and slightly brooding. There is a picture of him in 1805 image in his militia5 uniform and another in the library. He looks very intense.'
 
The Earl himself became mired6 in scandal after it was revealed that he had fathered three illegitimate children with his married mistress, leading his first wife, Lady Augusta Fane, to elope with a family friend before the two divorced in 1809.
 
It was already thought that the Earl's messy love-life likely provided the inspiration for Mansfield Park, but Dr Law now believes he likely inspired Mr Darcy as well.
 
Dr Law says she spent five years travelling the country unearthing7 old newspaper cuttings, diary entries, letters and other documents to prove Parker was Austen's inspiration. 
 
She added: 'We don't have the concrete evidence but I have discovered there were a lot of rumours8 about at the time and it is a convincing argument.
